SCARLET

Scarlet light of sunset shows up on the lake.
Grouses are crying in the wood, awake.
Hidden in a hollow, cries an oriole.
I don't feel like crying, brightness in my soul.

You'll come out to meet me later in the day,
We'll sit down there under stack of hay.
I will kiss and squeeze you, like a loving boy!
One can't blame a man for being drunk with joy.

You will chuck your kerchief as I hold you tight,
I will keep you, tipsy, in the bush all night.
Let the birds keep crying as we neck and bask
There's a happy yearning in the purple dusk.

1910


THE NIGHT

The tired day droops, slowly waning ,
The noisy waves are now tranquil.
The sun has set, the moon is sailing
Above the world, absorbed and still.

The valley listens to the babbles
Of peaceful river in the dale.
The forest, dark and bending, slumbers
To warbling of the nightingale.

The river, listening in and fondling,
Talks with the banks in quiet hush.
And up above resounds, a-rolling,
The merry rustle of the rush.

1910 -1912
 

A TIRED DAY

When a tired day bowed down to the night
The waves fell still, the birds wouldn't fly,
The sun set down over the hills (what a sight!)
And musingly the moon floated in the sky.

In the vale, the peaceful silvery brook
Babbled sweet nothings to the hushed dale,
While dark forest, dreamily bowed and took
In the trills of the nightingale'st long tale,

Attentive to the songs and the quiet bustle,
The river whispered, caressing the banks.
On the hill above, the reeds gently rustled
Happily singing, (or giving their thanks).

1910-1912


THE DOZING BELL

Dozing bell pealed
And woke the fields,
At the sun smiled
The sleepy earth.

Some clangs mounted
Strait to the blue sky
And the forests resounded
The ones that went awry,

White moon hid
Beyond the stream.
Running wave bid
Him, "Happy dreams".

The hushed glen blasts
The dreamy spell
And somewhere past
The road fades the bell.

1914


WHAT IS GONE CANNOT BE RETRIEVED

Lovely a night I will never retrieve it,
And I won't see my sweet precious love.
And the nightingale's song, I won't hear it,
Happy song that it sang in the grove!

That sweet night is now gone irrevocably
You can't tell it: please come back and wait.
Autumn weather has now a set in locally,
With perpetual rains, damp and wet.

Fast asleep in the grave is my sweetheart
Keeping love, as before, in her heart.
And however it tries, autumn blizzard
Cannot wake her from sleep, flesh and blood.

So the nightingale's singing has ended,
As the song-bird has taken to flight,
And I can't hear the song now, so splendid,
Which it sang on that sweet chilly night.

Gone and lost are the joyous emotions
That I felt in those days and conceived.
All I have now is chill in my conscience.
What is gone can't be ever retrieved.

1911-1912


THE STARS

Stars little stars, you're so high and so clear!
What have you got in you, so fascinating?
Stars, deep in thought, so discreet you appear,
What is the power that makes you so tempting?

Stars, little stars, you're so dense and so solid!
What is it that makes you so great and alluring?
How can you, heavenly bodies, afford it:
Stirring a thirst and desire for learning?

Why, as you shine, are you nice and inviting
Into your wide open arms, on the instant?
Pleasing the heart, so benign and enticing,
Heavenly stars, so remote and so distant!

1911-1912


MY LIFE

It appears, my life is fated to torment;
My way is dammed up by grief and distress.
My life has been severed from fun and enjoyment,
Vexation and wounds are afflicting my chest.

It seems I'm fated to suffer from pain.
All I have in this life are bad luck and misfortune.
I have suffered  enough in this life,  and again
Both my body and soul have been put to the torture.
 
The expanse, vast and hazy,  promises joy,
Sighs and tears, however, are the real solutions.
A storm will break out, the thunder - oh boy! -
Will ruin the magical luscious illusions.
 
Now I  know  life's deception,  and nevertheless
I don't want to complain of bad luck and misfortune.
So my soul doesn't suffer from grief and distress,
No one ever can help to relieve me from torture.
 
1911-1912


***

You were crying on a quiet night,
Those tears in your eyes you weren't hiding,
I was so sad, it was a real plight,
And yet we couldn't overcome misunderstanding.
 
Now you are gone, I'm here, on my own,
My dreams have faded, losing tint and colour,
You left me, and again I am all alone,
Without tender word and greeting, in my parlour.
 
When evening comes I often, crowned with rue,
Come to the place of our dating here,
And in my dreams I see the sight of you
And hear you crying bitterly, my dear.
 
1912-1913

 
              * * *
 
Canes have started rustling on the river bank,
Princess-girl is crying with her face pale, blank.
Pretty girl has chanted loves me - loves me not,
The unwoven flowers down the river float.
 
She is not to marry later in the spring,
Goblin has foretold a very frightening thing.
Mice have stripped the birch-tree of the bark, so hard,
They have frightened girlie out of the yard.

Horses fight, so threateningly jerking their heads,
Ah, dark hair is what goblin really hates.
Incense smell is coming from the nearby groves,
Loud winds are singing their dirge-like songs.
On the river bank she sadly walks around,
As the foamy wave is spinning her a shroud.

1914


TRINITY

Trinity devotions. Morning cannon rite,
Birch-trees in the grove are filled with ringing light.
Villagers are coming after festive sleep,
In the chimes of wind the heady spring will steep.

There are bands and branches on the window panes.
I will cry with flowers over grieves and pains.
Sing, you birds, lamenting, I will sing along,
We'll consign to dust my boyhood to this song.
Trinity aurora. Morning cannon rite,
Birch-trees in the grove are filled with ringing light.

1914
